---
title: learning
author: ~
date: '2020-02-08'
slug: learning
categories: []
tags: []
type: ''
subtitle: ''
image: ''
---

Nate Kornell’a research - one of the most fascinating findings in my college curriculum that I didn't internalize until 7 years later - after working and learning many new skills - is that difficulty in learning is not a sign that you’re not good enough, but actually is a sign that you’re learning. Difficulty is in fact desirable, and the right amount of it is key to effective, long-term learning.

Often when I'm learning a new skill or put into a new situation on the job, I encounter difficulty and a part of me thinks "this is a sign that I'm not good enough to do this." The imposter syndrome is a well documented but not well internalized phenonemon that many of us feel, and certainly has something to do with that sentiment. 

But in data science in particular and in the modern job market in general, constant learning and reskilling will be increasingly important. Understanding how to learn effectively, and how to understand your own experience while learning, will be a critical factor for success in this area.

Another related topic is the idea of specialization versus general exposure. In [_Range_ by David Epstein](https://davidepstein.com/the-range/), dispels the common notionmisconception that expertise requires early and constant specialization in a topic, and shows how it is the exception rather than the rule among the successful. The "Tiger Woods approach" of specializing and beginning rigorous training - the best path to success in conventional wisdom - actually is extremely rare and can actually be counterproductive. Conversely, having a broad exposure while you are young and then specializing intensely as you get older is a path shown to create phenomenal successes like Roger Federer in tennis, [TODO: get other examples from Range].

Many times as an (aspiring) data scientist, we can feel overwhelmed by the vailability of resources, the sheer breadth of topics, and the constant pace of new knoweldge and tools being released. We can intrepret struggles to undersand new topic areas as a sign of our incompetence rather than a signpotential sign of effective learning -  the learning expereince will not always be pleasant, but that difficulaty is iddiesrable insofar as it helps you rteain what you larned for longer and comprehends the topic more deeply. Similarly, we may feel our earlier topics expertise or education is less relevant, but weactually the broader exposure will help you to be more creative and connect ideas across disciplines, recognized patterns even in new situations, and ultimately be a more successful and satisfied data scientist. 
 
Relate to imposters syndrome 
- Learning how to learn
- Range 
